.\"
.\" This page was created on 2001-08-28 20:39:41 by makeman.pl
.\" ``makeman.pl'' is part of the ``MakeMan'' project.
.\" For more information, please see http://mama.sourceforge.net
.\"
.TH xsltproc 1 

.SH NAME
xsltproc \- command line xslt processor

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxsltproc\fR
[ \fI\-V\fR ] [ \fI\-v\fR ] [ \fI\-o \fR ] [ \fI\-\-timing\fR ] [ \fI\-\-repeat\fR ] [ \fI\-\-debug\fR ] [ \fI\-\-novalid\fR ] [ \fI\-\-noout\fR ] [ \fI\-\-maxdepth \fR ] [ \fI\-\-html\fR ] [ \fI\-\-docbook\fR ] [ \fI\-\-param \fR ] [ \fI\-\-nonet\fR ] [ \fI\-\-warnnet\fR ] [ \fI\-\-catalogs\fR ] [ \fI\-\-xinclude\fR ] [ \fI\-\-profile\fR ] [ \fIstylesheet\fR ] [ \fIfile1\fR ] [ \fIfile2\fR ] [ \fI....\fR ] 

.SH "Introduction"

.PP

xsltproc is a command line tool for applying
XSLT stylesheets to XML
documents. It is part of libxslt, the XSLT C
library for GNOME. While it was developed as part of the GNOME project, it
can operate independently of the GNOME desktop.


.PP

xsltproc is invoked from the command line with
the name of the stylesheet to be used followed by the name of the file or
files to which the stylesheet is to be applied.


.PP

If a stylesheet is included in an XML document with a
Stylesheet Processing Instruction, no stylesheet need be named at the
command line. xsltproc will automatically
detect the included stylesheet and use it.


.PP

By default, output is to stdout. You can specify a file for output using
the \-o option.


.SH "Options"

.PP

\-V or \-\-version \- Show the version of
libxml and libxslt used.


.PP

\-v or \-\-verbose \- Output each step taken
by xsltproc in processing the stylesheet and the document.


.PP

\-o or \-\-output
\fIfile\fR \- Direct output to the file named
\fIfile\fR. For multiple outputs, also known as
"chunking", \-o directory/ directs the
output files to a specified directory. The directory must already exist.


.PP

\-\-timing \- Display the time used for parsing the
stylesheet, parsing the document and applying the stylesheet and saving
the result. Displayed in milliseconds.


.PP

\-\-repeat \- Run the transformation 20 times. Used for
timing tests.


.PP

\-\-debug \- Output an XML tree of the
transformed document for debugging purposes.


.PP

\-\-novalid \- Skip loading the document's DTD.


.PP

\-\-noout \- Do not output the result.


.PP

\-\-maxdepth \fIvalue\fR \- Adjust the
maximum depth of the template stack before
libxslt concludes it is in an infinite
loop. The default is 500.


.PP

\-\-html \- The input document is an HTML
file.


.PP

\-\-docbook \- The input document is DocBook
SGML.


.PP

\-\-param \fIname\fR
\fIvalue\fR \- Pass a parameter of name
\fIname\fR and value
\fIvalue\fR to the stylesheet. You may pass multiple
name/value pairs up to a maximum of 8.

.PP

If the value being passed is a string rather than a node identifier,
it must be escaped in quotes, as follows:	

.PP

xsltproc \-\-param rootid '"introduction"'
\fIstylesheet\fR \fIfile\fR	



.PP

\-\-nonet \- Do not use the Internet to fetch DTD's or
entities.


.PP

\-\-warnnet \- Output notification when DTD's or entities
are fetched over the Internet.


.PP

\-\-catalogs \- Use catalogs to resolve the location of
external entities. This speeds DTD resolution. By having a
catalog file point to a local version of the DTD,
xsltproc does not have to use the
Internet to fetch the DTD. xsltproc
uses the catalog identified by the environmental variable
SGML_CATALOG_FILES.


.PP

\-\-xinclude \- Process the input document using the
Xinclude specification. More details on this can be found in the Xinclude
specification: http://www.w3.org/TR/xinclude/ (Link to \fIhttp://www.w3.org/TR/xinclude/\fR)


.PP

\-\-profile or \-\-norman \- Output profiling
information detailing the amount of time spent in each part of the
stylesheet. This is useful in optimizing stylesheet performance.


.SH "More Information"

.PP

.IP
libxml web page: http://www.xmlsoft.org/ (Link to \fIhttp://www.xmlsoft.org/\fR)
.IP
W3C XSLT page: http://www.w3.org/TR/xslt (Link to \fIhttp://www.w3.org/TR/xslt\fR)


